                         Hardware Requirements for
                     Helix GitSwarm Enterprise Edition

                              Version 2016.1

Introduction

    This document describes the hardware requirements for Helix GitSwarm EE
    release 2016.1.

Supported Operating System Platforms

    * Ubuntu 12.04 or 14.04
    * CentOS 6.7 or 7

Unsupported Unix distributions
    * OS X
    * Arch Linux
    * Fedora
    * Gentoo
    * FreeBSD

Non-Unix operating systems such as Windows

GitSwarm EE is developed for Unix operating systems. GitSwarm EE does *not*
run on Windows and we have no plans of supporting it in the near future.
Please consider using a virtual machine to run GitSwarm EE.

Ruby versions

GitSwarm EE requires Ruby (MRI) 2.1 You will have to use the standard MRI
implementation of Ruby. We love JRuby and Rubinius but GitSwarm EE needs
several Gems that have native extensions.

Supported Git Fusion Releases

    * Git Fusion 2015.2, or newer.

Storage

    The necessary hard drive space largely depends on the size of the repos
    you want to store in GitSwarm. As a rule of thumb you should have at
    least twice as much free space as all your repos combined take up.

    Note that if you are mirroring projects to Helix Server using the
    locally provisioned Helix Git Fusion Server, you will want at least
    four times as much free space as all your repos combined.

    If you want to be flexible about growing your hard drive space in the
    future, consider mounting it using LVM so you can add more hard drives
    when you need them.

    Apart from a local hard drive, you can also mount a volume that
    supports the network file system (NFS) protocol. This volume might be
    located on a file server, a network attached storage (NAS) device, a
    storage area network (SAN) or on an Amazon Web Services (AWS) Elastic
    Block Store (EBS) volume.

    If you have enough RAM and a recent CPU, the speed of GitSwarm EE is
    mainly limited by hard drive seek times. Having a fast drive (7,200 RPM
    and up) or a solid state drive (SSD) will improve the responsiveness of
    GitSwarm EE.

CPU

    For production use, it is recommended GitSwarm EE be run on a dedicated
    server. The Helix Server and Helix Git Fusion products should ideally
    be installed on their own independent machines. In that configuration:

    * 1 core supports up to 100 users, but performance may suffer as all
      workers and background jobs running on the same core
    * 2 cores is the recommended minumum number of cores and supports up to
      500 users
    * 4 cores supports up to 2,000 users
    * 8 cores supports up to 5,000 users
    * 16 cores supports up to 10,000 users
    * 32 cores supports up to 20,000 users
    * 64 cores supports up to 40,000 users

    By default, GitSwarm EE will attempt to automatically provision an
    instance of Helix Server and Helix Git Fusion all on the local system.
    When running all components on the same machine, we suggest a minimum
    of 4 cores.

Memory

    You need at least 2GB of addressable memory (RAM + swap) to install and
    use GitSwarm EE! With less memory, GitSwarm EE will give strange errors
    during the reconfigure run and 500 errors during usage.

    For production use, it is recommended GitSwarm EE be run on a dedicated
    server. The Helix Server and Helix Git Fusion products should ideally
    be installed on their own independent machines. In that configuration:

    * 2GB RAM is the absolute minimum, but we strongly advise against this
      amount of memory. See the Unicorn Workers section below for more
      advice.
    * 4GB RAM is the recommended memory size and supports up to 1,000 users
    * 8GB RAM supports up to 2,000 users
    * 16GB RAM supports up to 4,000 users
    * 32GB RAM supports up to 8,000 users
    * 64GB RAM supports up to 16,000 users
    * 128GB RAM supports up to 32,000 users

    Note: The 25 workers of Sidekiq will show up as separate processes in
          your process overview (such as top or htop) but they share the
          same RAM allocation since Sidekiq is a multithreaded application.

Unicorn Workers

It is possible to increase the amount of unicorn workers and this will
usually help to reduce the response time of the applications and increase
the ability to handle parallel requests.

For most instances we recommend using: CPU cores + 1 = unicorn workers. So
for a machine with 2 cores, 3 unicorn workers is ideal.

A *minimum* of *3* unicorn workers is required for concurrent use of the
system.

For all machines that have 1GB and up we recommend a minimum of three
unicorn workers. If you have a 512MB machine with a magnetic (non-SSD) swap
drive we recommend to configure only one Unicorn worker to prevent
excessive swapping. With one Unicorn worker only git over ssh access will
work because the git over HTTP access requires two running workers (one
worker to receive the user request and one worker for the authorization
check). If you have a 512MB machine with a SSD drive you can use two
Unicorn workers, this will allow HTTP access although it will be slow due
to swapping.

If you need to adjust the Unicorn timeout or the number of workers you can
use the following settings in /etc/gitswarm/gitswarm.rb:

unicorn['worker_processes'] = 3
unicorn['worker_timeout'] = 60

Run sudo gitswarm-ctl reconfigure for the change to take effect.

Database

If you want to run the database separately, the *recommended* database size
is *1 MB per user*.

Redis and Sidekiq

Redis stores all user sessions and the background task queue. The storage
requirements for Redis are minimal, about 25kB per user. Sidekiq processes
the background jobs with a multithreaded process. This process starts with
the entire Rails stack (200MB+) but it can grow over time due to memory
leaks. On a very active server (10,000 active users) the Sidekiq process
can use 1GB+ of memory.

Supported web browsers

    * Chrome (Latest stable version)
    * Firefox (Latest released version and latest ESR version)
    * Safari 7+ (known problem: required fields in html5 do not work)
    * Opera (Latest released version)
    * IE 10+

Common UI problems with IE

If you experience UI issues with Internet Explorer, please make sure that
you have the Compatibility View mode disabled.

END
