# Jenkins CI integration

Since GitSwarm EE 2015.4, Jenkins integration using the [GitLab Hook
Plugin](https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/GitLab+Hook+Plugin)
was deprecated in favor of the [GitLab
Plugin](https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/GitLab+Plugin).
The deprecated integration has been renamed to 'Jenkins CI (Deprecated)' in
the project service settings. We may remove this in a future release and
recommend using the new 'Jenkins CI' project service instead. See
[documentation for 'Jenkins CI
(Deprecated)'](#jenkins-ci-deprecated-service) below.

## Jenkins CI Service

Integration includes:

* Trigger a Jenkins build after push to a repository and/or when a merge
  request is created
* Show build status on Merge Request page, on each commit and on the
  project home page

### Requirements:

* [Jenkins GitLab
  Plugin](https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/GitLab+Plugin)
* [Jenkins Git
  Plugin](https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Git+Plugin)
* Git clone access for Jenkins from the GitSwarm EE repository
* GitSwarm EE API access to report build status

### Configure GitSwarm EE users

Create a user or choose an existing user that Jenkins will use to interact
through the GitSwarm EE API. This user will need to be a global Admin or
added as a member to each Group/Project. Reporter permission is all that's
required for cloning, building, and reporting build status. Some features
of the GitLab Plugin may require additional privileges. For example, there
is an option to accept a merge request if the build is successful. Using
this feature would require developer, master or owner-level permission.

Copy the private API token from **Profile Settings -> Account**. You will
need this when configuring the Jenkins server later.

### Configure the Jenkins server

Install [Jenkins GitLab
Plugin](https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/GitLab+Plugin) and
[Jenkins Git
Plugin](https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Git+Plugin).

Go to Manage Jenkins -> Configure System and scroll down to the 'GitLab'
section. Enter the GitSwarm EE server URL in the 'GitLab host URL' field
and paste the API token copied earlier in the 'API Token' field.

![Jenkins GitLab plugin configuration](jenkins_gitlab_plugin_config.png)

### Configure a Jenkins project

Follow the GitLab Plugin documentation under the [Using it With a
Job](https://github.com/jenkinsci/gitlab-plugin#using-it-with-a-job)
heading. You *do not* need to complete instructions under the 'GitLab
Configuration (>= 8.0)'. Be sure to check the 'Use GitLab CI features'
checkbox as described under the 'GitLab Configuration (>= 8.1)'.

### Configure a GitSwarrm EE project

Create a new GitLab project or choose an existing one. Then, go to
**Services -> Jenkins CI**.

Check the 'Active' box. Select whether you want GitSwarm EE to trigger a
build on push, Merge Request creation, tag push, or any combination of
these. We recommend unchecking 'Merge Request events' unless you have a
specific use-case that requires re-building a commit when a merge request
is created. With 'Push events' selected, GitLab will build the latest
commit on each push and the build status will be displayed in the merge
request.

Enter the Jenkins URL and Project name. The project name should be
URL-friendly where spaces are replaced with underscores. To be safe, copy
the project name from the URL bar of your browser while viewing the Jenkins
project.

Optionally, enter a username and password if your Jenkins server requires
authentication.

![GitLab service settings](jenkins_gitlab_service_settings.png)

# Jenkins CI (Deprecated) Service

This service is deprecated and may be removed in a future version of GitLab.
Please see documentation for the new Jenkins CI service above.

Integration includes:

* Trigger Jenkins build after push to repo
* Show build status on Merge Request page

Requirements: 

* [Jenkins GitLab Hook
  plugin](https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/GitLab+Hook+Plugin)
* git clone access for Jenkins from GitLab repo (via SSH key)

## Jenkins

1. Install [GitLab Hook
   plugin](https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/GitLab+Hook+Plugin)
2. Setup Jenkins project

![screen](jenkins_project.png)


## GitLab

### Read access to repository

Jenkins needs read access to the GitLab repository. We already specified a
private key to use in Jenkins, now we need to add a public one to the
GitSwarm EE project. For that case we will need a Deploy key. Read the
documentation on [how to setup a Deploy
key](../../ssh/README.md#deploy-keys).

### Jenkins service

Now navigate to GitSwarm EE services page and activate Jenkins

![screen](jenkins_gitlab_service.png)

Done! Now when you push to GitSwarm EE, it will create a build for Jenkins.
And also you will be able to see merge request build status with a link to
the Jenkins build.

### Multi-project Configuration

The GitLab Hook plugin in Jenkins supports the automatic creation of a
project for each feature branch. After configuration GitSwarm EE triggers
feature branch builds and a corresponding project is created in Jenkins.

Configure the GitLab Hook plugin in Jenkins. Go to 'Manage Jenkins' and
then 'Configure System'. Find the 'GitLab Web Hook' section and configure
as shown below.

![Jenkins Multi-project Configuration](jenkins_multiproject_configuration.png)

In the Jenkins service in GitSwarm EE, check the 'Multi-project setup
enabled?'.

![Jenkins Multi-project Enabled](jenkins_multiproject_enabled.png)

### Mark unstable build as passing

When using some plugins in Jenkins, an unstable build status will result
when tests are not passing. In these cases the unstable status in Jenkins
should register as a failure in GitLab on the merge request page. In other
cases you may not want an unstable status to display as a build failure in
GitLab. Control this behavior using the 'Should unstable builds be treated
as passing?' setting in the Jenkins service in GitSwarm EE.

When checked, unstable builds will display as green or passing in GitLab.
By default unstable builds display in GitSwarm EE as red or failed.

![Jenkins Unstable Passing](jenkins_unstable_passing.png)

## Development

An explanation of how this works in case anyone want to improve it or
develop this service for another CI tool. In GitSwarm EE, there is no
database table that lists the commits, these are always read from the
repository. Therefore it is not possible to mark the build status of a
commit in GitSwarm EE. Actually we believe this information should be
stored in a single place, the CI tool itself. To show this information in a
merge request you make a project service in GitSwarm EE. This project
service does a (JSON) query to a URL of the CI tool with the SHA1 of the
commit. The project service builds this url and payload based on project
service settings and knowlegde of the CI tool. The response is parsed to
give a response in GitSwarm EE (success/failed/pending). All this happens
with AJAX requests on the merge request page. The Jenkins project service
code is only available in GitSwarm EE. The GitLab CI project service code
is available in the GitSwarm EE codebase.
